---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---


This week I learned about Git as well as begun to think about what open source project i'd like to work on. 

During this week while I was learning about git I also was considering what open source project I wanted to contribute to. Normally i'd say I would want to do a humanitarian project, or something to help better society. But in hindsight I learned that entering these communities I would have to devote a large amount of time to actually be able to help with these projects. Although, I want to do things that will help better society and help a humanitarian effort. As a new computer science major I believe I should pick a project which I would enjoy, to start. An example of which is something like a game engine. I spent two years of my undergraduate studies working as a physics major, so to be able to incorporate that into my computer science career would be amazing. This way I can put the classes I took to good use. If I do choose to do a humanitarian project it would have to be something that I am definitely interested in, something that could help people from communities like mine. My goal for this semester is to begin making contributions in the hopes of becoming a distinguished individual in the community. I want learn enough about the project that I will then be able to make improvements to the code. Not only that but I would like to use github to show case those contributions, for potential employers in the future. Speaking of github, learning git and understanding how it works will help me in making contributions to a project.

Some of the things that I learned about git:

Having the main branch of your code in a github repository makes it much easier to make changes on your cloned branch. It is safer to test out changes to your code offline. Also using git helps you keep track of all the updates made to your code and where it comes from. That is why when working on a project in a large group git is ideal since it allows multiple people to make changes to the project while keeping the original intact. I look forward to learning more about git and how to use git and contribute to the open source world. 
