---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

_What are communities of practice?_

A communitiy of practice is a group of people who are interested in a certain topic. This community is built upon the shared interest of a group of people. This shared interest turns into an infectious desire to learn and improve within the group of the community of practice. The community also has ways to improve and grow. There is an openess to the community where people in the community are open to teach new comers and allowing others to join their community. These commmunity of practices are what makes people want to learn and develop around their shared interest.

An example of a community in practice which I was recently involved in was the Dominoes Club in hunter college. When I joined there were a group of about four people who were plaeying dominoes on the third floor of the Hunter west building. I decided to join them and we began a rapport. As we sat there and played people would come by and look on to what we were doing. That is when we asked people to join and taught them how to play dominoes. Then the community began to grow. Now you would be hard pressed to walk by that floor and not see people playing dominoes. In this example our desired interest was the game of dominoes. We were inclusive and allowed people to join. We had a set rule for how to play the games that we all confirmed to together. But the most important thing was the location. Although it was mainly coincidence the location of where we all gathered to play was in the middle of Hunter College building network. In hunter college most of the classes are split between the north and west building. Some courses are also taught in the east bulding as well. Each of these building is connected by a bridge that allows people to switch between buildings without having to go outside. These bridges are located on the third floor of each building and only connect to one building, the west building. Meaning that if you wanted to walk between buildings you would have to bypass the west building third floor. Where we had our club set up was right in the lobby next to the escalators so it was visible to anyone comming by the west building. So as people walked by and saw a group of people laughing and having fun playing dowminoes it bgan to attract other people and started to help our comminuty gro.w. Within the community there were the people who were speciallized and played the game really well and also there wwere people who were willing to teachnew players how to play. ThiThis is an example of a community of practice. 

_What role does this concept play in a community built around an open source project?_

This concept of community of practice is important in an open source project. In order for an open source project to thrive it must be community driven. Looking at the [seven principles](https://hbswk.hbs.edu/archive/cultivating-communities-of-practice-a-guide-to-managing-knowledge-seven-principles-for-cultivating-communities-of-practice):

1. Desing for evolution:
	
	In an open source project are designed to be community driven. The design of the project helps involve new people and keep people coming back to make new changes and development.

2. Open a dialogue between inside and outside perspectives:
	
	The open source equivalent would be the contributors and the modirators. Having the modirators conversating with the contributors to keep the project on track.

3. Invite different levels of participation:
	
	In order for an open source project to allow different levels of participation it has to have clear instructions for allowing people to join their open source communities. An example is by making the instructions to creating a development environment very clear. Allowing all different levels of programmers in to learn and bring in new ideas.

4. Develop both public and private community spaces:
	
	This is the same as the contributors who are managing the project and the contributors who are adding code. By having a github page it allows people to public speak there. 

5. Focus on value:
	
	Establishing the value and why we are contributing to the project is important. This will allow people to stay focused and continue contributing. If one is contributing code to a project but doesn't have a clear vision of what the value of the project is, then it is less likely they will continue to contribute.

6. Combine familiarity and excitement:
	
	In a project it is important to create a good dialogue. If the project has people leaving good comments and people helping out others it will create a familiarity in the project causing excitment. By recognizing each other and thanking each other for the contribution it will make people feel welcome and not make it seem like they are putting in work.

7. Create a rhythm for the community:

	By making sure that pull requests and issues are being maintained it will create a rhythm in the community. Not allowing issues to sit too long without being looked on and pull requests being reviewed will allow the community to prosper.

----------------------------

Update on Mozilla Web Voice contribution:
------

What I wanted to accomplish for this week:

"For next week I hope to be able to pinpoint 1 to 2 issues we will be working on and have a basic rough version of a fix ready."

[Validate more than 5 recordings:](https://github.com/mozilla/voice-web/issues/1869)

In web voice when you record 5 different voice messages it will prompt you with a button saying "Ready to do 5 more". After this message is clicked on it will allow to user to do 5 more recordings. In the issue the person wanted there to be an easier way to do this rather than having to click that button over and over again.

There is an option to remove the summary screen in your profile settings so it will present you with another 5 clips immediately. 

Someone commented: 

----------

	dabinat commented 27 days ago

	There is an option to remove the summary screen in your profile settings so it will present you with another 5 clips immediately.

	@Gregoor this is a common question so maybe the visibility of this setting could be improved? Perhaps a “Don’t show this again” option on the screen itself?

-----------

What I think would be better is to add on the bottom right of the screen the option to remove the summary screen. By clicking that button in the settings bar it will take away to summary screen and automatically make you do 5 more recordings right away. 
How I am thinking about doing this:

I plan on taking the code from the button in the settings and adding it to the page where the summary screen is. I was able to find the file where the code is for the settings button as well as where I would have to put it for the contributing code. Now what I need to do is figure out how to tranlate over the code to the other file. 

	
	This is where the button is to remove the summary screen

	~/voice-web/web/src/components/pages/profile/settings/

	In this particular folder there are two different files. _settings.css_ & _settings.tsx_.

	The way it seems is that the .css file is the design of the webpage.
	The .tsx file is the actual code that makes the button do something. 
	This is in typescript.

	The second location where I want to put the button is

	~/voice-web/web/src/components/pages/contribution/

	The two files that I need to add the button to are _success.css_ and _success.tsx_.

Now that I have these four files I need to figure out what the code means in .tsx, as well as try to understand how to add the button using the .css file.

For next week, I plan to get help with understanding this code from someone who has more experience, and also try to at the very least get the button on the summary page, whether it works or not.






