---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

For the week of March 22, my group went from Nextcloud Server to Mozilla Voice-Web. The reason why we decided to change was because the development environment was too difficult to install. During the process of installing nextcloud server I learned a lot. While I was attempting to install nextcloud I learned about localhosts, and ports, as well also how to change your user. I decided to change my user to super user because it made it easier to change things on the computer while installing nextcloud. I later learned that doing things this way was extremely dangerous and it actually made things harder. By switching my user in the terminal to super user it ended up giving all the files I made on my drive permissions I had not wanted. Meaning that I would not be able to delete or edit any of those files unless I was root. I later changed the permission of those files and am using sudo instead of root. Nevertheless i was using root in order to install nextcloud. Nextcloud server had many different modules that it needed. Since it was a server I had to use many commands on Apache and also MariaDB. When it was all said and done and I thought I configured everything. The last step gave me a ton of trouble because I had to use an installation wizard. I could not figure out how to give it permission to write on the device. 

Since I wasn't the only one having trouble with nextcloud we decided to scrap that project and do mozzilla web voice. The installation was much easier. We were able to get the development environment up and ready. Specifically I found that my Google chrome book didn't not have enough memory to store the development environment. What I did was found an old computer I had and fixed the wifi adapter. Then created a partion of space in the harddrive in order to install linux. After that I updated all the files and was able to download the development environment.

As of now we are looking at issues and trying to find a fix for some of them. We are looking for particular issues dealing with bugs and possibly enhancements. One of the issues we looked at was the option “ready to do 5 more”. The proposed enhancement was possibly adding an option to press P instead of having to click the ready to do 5 more. The suggestion I brought up with was an option to put a button under the ready to do 5 more that takes off the end summary. This makes it so that it doesn't ask to do 5 more. While looking at the source code I noticed there were many different file types in the directory. I was able to find the files that mentioned the 5 more button but I didn't know what to do with it. Since there were multiple type files in the directory I decided that the best move would be rather than trying to brute Force my way to a quick fix, it would be better to figure out what these files are and how they work. Understanding the hierarchy of the files on the directory should be the first thing we should do as a group.

Other than trying to fix this issue we also set up an account in the slack channel for voice web. 

For next week I hope to be able to pinpoint 1 to 2 issues we will be working on and have a basic rough version of a fix ready.

