---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---



Doing the project evaluations on OpenFoodFacts, Netflix Conductor, and DOxygen, helped me understand how difficult it can be to find a fitting project. Although the task that I had to do was tedious it was necessary. When looking at a project there are many factors to consider. Although, it is time consuming each part of the project evaluation was necessary. Here is a quick description of each part of the project evaluation. 

  

License : 

  

Looking at whether the license is open source, also considering if the project has a dual license. 

  

Code Base: 

  

Looking at what the primary language is on the project. What the development environment is and how difficult it is to install it. Looking at how complicated the code is, as well as when the project was first started. I know some Java, python, and C++. When looking at projects it will be beneficial to look at projects that are mainly in C++ since that is what I am studying now. 

  

Activity Level: 

  

This part was the most time consuming, but also the most important. Looking at the number of commits per week, how long the issues stay open, and how long pull requests stay open as well. When I look up projects, I will be looking at the activity first. 

  

Welcomeness: 

  

Lastly, looking at how welcoming the project is. Seeing if there is friendly discussion going on in the chat.  

  

  

Now that I have some basic experience in doing project evaluation, I am looking forward to doing some evaluations on projects that I am interested in. This evaluation process, in my opinion, took a bit too long. What took the longest was basic calculations that can easily be done by a computer. Having to click back and forth between issues and pull request to then calculate when an issue was open then closed seemed unnecessary. The only good thing about doing all this is that it forced me to look and get to know the project a bit more. I think a good way to improve this project evaluation could be to look at the github api and create a way to do these calculations for any project. Since the class is doing a project looking at the github api, I think we should partially have people making a way to check the activity of different projects. 

  

The other thing that we did this week was look in our class repository and write issues on other people's blogs. Although this is with our classmates, to me it was a bit nerve racking. Submitting an issue on someone else's work made me a bit anxious because I wanted to be sure that I was 100% correct before posting an issue. I can only imagine how submitting issues and pull requests for the project I join will be. That is why I am going to make sure I triple check any of my work submitted to projects as well as have other people look at my contributions as well.  

  

For next week I want to begin to narrow down the search for a project and begin looking at code to try and make contributions. 
