---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---
In this post I will be discussing the difference between Open Source Software and Free Software.

According to the Open Source Initiative’s webpage, https://opensource.org/osd, Open Source is not solely having access to source code there are also other distribution criteria which must be met. In order for a software to be considered Open Source there must be a reasonable way to obtain the source code and be available to the public without charge. The license must not be specific to a product, restrict other software, and be technology neutral. Another important thing that open source initiative pushes is that open source software must not discriminate against persons, groups, or other fields of study. These things help define what open source software is. 

According to the GNU Operating System, which is sponsored by the Free Software Foundation, when defining free software, it is important to understand what the meaning of the word “Free” is. Instead of free as in cost, the ‘free’ in ‘free software’ refers to the freedom of the use of the source code for the software. In an article published by the GNU, at https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/free-sw.html, it mentions four freedoms, the first is the ability to run the program however one wishes to. The second freedom is having availability to the source code in order to study the program and change it to do what you want it to do. The third the freedom to redistribute copies so that you can help others. Lastly, the freedom to distribute copies of your version of the code so that others can use it and benefit from it. These four freedoms encompass the basic core of what free software is. 

The main difference between these two terms is highlighted in the names. Although Open Source and Free Software have many similarities the difference can be seen when we think about what each of the names mean. As stated above when referring to free software we are talking about the freedom of use of the software rather than the price. In open source although it also has to do with how you can openly use the software it also deals with things that aren’t necessarily targeted in free software. One of the things is that in Open Source there must not be any discrimination against any persons or groups as well as any other fields of endeavor. These two distinctions show the differences in the philosophy of both groups dealing with similar ideas.  


